Implementing Merge Sort, Quick Sort, and Visualizing Execution Times
We implement merge sort, and quick sort. Merge sort has time-complexity O(nlogn) for all cases, while quick sort takes O(nlogn) for the average and best cases and O(n^2) for the worst-case. The advantage of using quicksort is that is has better space complexity compared to merge sort. We will ranomly generate 10 datasets consisting of 100,000 datapoints and implement merge sort, quick sort, and Python's native sorted() method.  We will use boxplots of the execution times for each algorithm for comparison and also create boxplots to visualize the distributions of points for each dataset. We can use quantiles to identify the worst, average, and best-case execution times. The sorted() method is described below:

Python's Native Sorting Algorithm
The sorted() method (https://docs.python.org/3/howto/sorting.html)is Python's native sorting function and uses an algorithm called Timsort() which uses a combination of merge sort and insertion sort to effectively complete multi-sorts where data with several keys can be sorted by one key in one pass and another key in a separate pass. Timsort 'takes advantage of any ordering already present in a dataset' by rcognzing subarrays that are already sorted, called 'runs'. By recognizing runs, the dividing of the array during merge sort can be reduced. Timsort requires a minimum number of runs and if those runs are not met, then insertion sort is used to generate the minimum number of runs (sorted subarrays). In an ideal case, the number of runs is met, which gives Timsort a best-case time complexity of O(n) compared to merge sort's best-case of O(nlogn). Timsort algorithm is useful in Python, where real-world datasets are used with ordered patterns existing throughout cases such as time-series data. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timsort)

Extension: Visualizing Best-Case
Because we are randomly generating data, it is expected that there would be few ordered sequences of data. This means that we can predict that the sorted() method would operate on a worst-case basis for most of our generated data. In our project we would provide the user an option to generate data that would have best-case time complexity for the selected sorting algorithm. That is we will offer an option to generate samples that produces the best case for either merge sort, quick sort, and sorted(). We will then provide a histogram to visualize the execution times across the datasets and a boxplot for each dataset to show how points are distributed if the best case was chosen for merge sort, quick sort, sorted(), or none (completely random generation). To create the best-case for quick sort, we would pass in an optimal pivot O(nlogn). Merge sort takes O(nlogn) for all cases, so we can keep our original data generation process. For Python's sorted() algorithm we can pass through 'natural' datasets by taking a real-world data set that likely has 'runs' and to reach 100,000 data points take a slice of the dataset and add it to the end.

Extensions: Recognizing best-case sorting algorithm for a given dataset
ML supervised learning model that predicts a label for the sorting algorithm to use to achieve best-case time complexity. The input is a flattened  vector of datapoints in a dataset.  A data point in the model would look like ('merge sort', [67, 2, 24,5,....]). We would train the model using sample generated datasets where we classify the sorting algorithm that achieves a best-case scenario based on which sorting algorith had the fastest execution time for that dataset. 